=head1 NAME

hdparmify - hard drive management with hdparm

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<hdparmify> [options] [command]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

hdparmify applies B<hdparm> options to hard drives via a udev rule.
It also provides B<systemd> services: I<hdparmify-reapply> to reapply
options after waking up and I<hdparmify-restore> to restore devices to
their default state before shutdown.

Supported B<hdparm> flags are: B<-B>, B<-M>, B<-S>, B<-y>, B<-Y>.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-h>

Show help message.

=item B<-c> I<CONFIG>

Path to configuration file.

=item B<-d> I<DEVICE>

Device to affect.

=item B<-t>

Exit successfully if device not in config.

=item B<-n>

Ignore delay options.

=item B<-v>

Show version.

=back

=head1 COMMANDS

=over

=item B<apply>

Affect device specified with B<-d> or all devices in config that exist.

=item B<reset>

Reset state.

=item B<reapply>

Reset state and apply.

=item B<restore>

Restore devices to their default state.

Currently only the I<standby_timeout=> option is restored by setting it to 0.

=item B<status>

Print status.

=back

=head1 CONFIGURATION

Sections in the configuration file F</etc/hdparmify.conf> are names of devices.
The available options are shown below (with the corresponding B<hdparm> flag in
parentheses). See B<hdparm>(8) for details about each option.

=over

=item I<power_management=>

Set Advanced Power Management (B<-B>). Values are in the range 1-255.

=item I<acoustic_management=>

Set Automatic Acoustic Management (B<-M>). Values are in the range 0-254.

=item I<standby_timeout=>

Put the drive into idle (low-power) mode and set the standby (spindown)
timeout (B<-S>). Values are in the range 0-253,255.

=item I<power_mode=>

This option takes one of two values: standby (B<-y>) or sleep (B<-Y>).
Standby mode usually causes a device to spin down.
Sleep mode causes a device to shut down completely.

=item I<delay=>

This option is specific to B<hdparmify>. Its value is the number of seconds to
wait before affecting a device.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

James Reed E<lt>james@twiddlingbits.netE<gt>

=head1 REPORTING BUGS

Bugs and issues can be reported here:
L<https://github.com/jcrd/hdparmify/issues>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2018 James Reed. hdparmify is licensed under the MIT License.

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<hdparm>(8), B<udev>(7), B<systemd>(1)
